# Build your ChatBot
===
## Introduction:                                                                
#### Chatbot is a service where it pretends to be like a person and chat with us via a chat interface. It can be a text conversation or spoken conversation. Chatbot can run on local machines and mobile phones and it can be accessed through the internet. Now a days, most of the companies have started developing their own Chatbot in order to engage with their customers. It can be interesting, inspiring and intriguing. It’s very popular now a days mainly for two reasons -
* Company need not depend on humans to handle their customers.
* Various solutions exists to make the Chatbot intelligent with less time. 
#### Now you may know the importance of Chatbot. But before talking about how to build the Chatbot, you have to know about its types and their initial requirements. Just go through these Chatbot types and try to map with your requirement and at last take a wise decision. The core model of Chatbot are classified into two groups:
* Retrieval-based models
* Generative models
**Retrieval-based models**
#### Retrieval-based models provide a simple but effective solution that can be developed in no time. It uses the predefined responses and some kind of heuristics in order to get an appropriate response based on the given input and context. The heuristic can be the vanilla approach i.e. rule based expression match or as complex as AI approach. These systems are not configured to generate any new text, they just pick a response from the set of responses that matches the intent of a statement. 
**Generative models**
#### These models are very complex to understand and implement but delivers great results. They don’t rely on predefined responses, instead, they generate the responses from scratch. It uses the concept of machine translation but instead of translating text from one language to the other, we translate input to an output. If you want to do big and better just go for this approach. This is still a huge research area in the field of AI. That’s why you must be ready to handle errors generated by this approach. Also we need huge data to train these kind of models.
#### As I am writing this article for the beginners, I am purposely choosing the Retrieval-based approach to put some light on practical implementation of ML in Chatbot. May be in coming days I will try to cover the second approach (Generative models) as well.

**Chatbot Domain**
#### Now you may also want to build the Chatbot. But before this you have to understand your own requirement and based on that you have to choose one of the domain. All domains are categorized into 2 groups:
1. Open domain
2. Close domain
**Open domain:**
#### Chatbot with open domain provides the support to chat with any type of topic or context. But it’s very hard to develop this, at least today it’s impossible. 
**Closed domain:**
#### This is the domain which is being implemented and tested by many professionals and companies. Our Chatbot example will also come under this domain only. Here, you can chat with the Chatbot domain specific questions/context for which the Chatbot is trained and developed. 
#### I hope, now you are very familiar with the basics of Chatbot and mapped your requirement/plans with the information provided here. It’s potentially a huge business opportunity for anyone willing to jump headfirst and build something people want.
#### Now to build any AI system, the very first thing that comes to every individuals mind is that “How and where to start”. I will answer this question in the next session of “Build your ChatBot”.
#### In the next session, we will dive into the development of Chatbot and will talk about “Data gathering and Preprocessing” and build end to end solution.


